Hello and welcome back to the course on
R programming. In today's tutorial,
we're talking about the dollar sign.
So what is it all about and what does
that operator do? Well we'll find out
just now, let's create a new section in
our code and here we'll say using the
dollar sign.
Alright so first of all, let's look at
data right
stats, that's quite a lot. Let's learn and
use one of those functions that we
learned previously head stats. So here we
get out first six rows, our top six
rows, great! So how could we
for instance select a row from here? How
could we select this row for instance?
Angola and we want to find the, extract
the birth rate for Angola. While working
for data frame is very similar to
working for matrix, so we would say stats
square brackets and Angola is in the
third row right? So 1, 2 and in which
column, a third column so we would say
Angola 3,3 that would give us 45,985,
there we go. That's the same number that
we were after. Alright what other ways
are there?
Well from our previous section we know
about named objects and we can see that
this is a named object it has these
column names. So we can use the column names,
so we can say third row and then instead
of the number of the column we can say
birth rate right? So we can say birth rate,
if we run that we get the same number
great! Now what we can do is we can stats
basically then three here but then
say Angola, we can't do that.
Why can't we do that? Because of course this
is a column in the data set, it's not the
name of the row, it's just a column the
data if we run that, we'll get an NA
that's not found. The value is not found and
we can't do that because you even though
it looks like they're at the start and
maybe we can use them to index things
actually not just simply a comment, it could
have been on the right, it could have been
anywhere. So you can't do that and that
that makes sense right? Because in a
data frame the rows are numbered and
they don't have names, the columns have
names but rows don't, rows have numbers
and then it's very similar if you think
about it, it's exactly the same as an
excel. Right in Excel you have columns
with names but you don't have names
for rows right? So it totally makes sense
when you think about it that way.
Alright so what are we talking about
today? How what is this dollar sign?
Well the dollar sign is another way to
access your data in a data frame,
dollar sign doesn't work for matrices
but it does work for data frames. So what you
would do is you would say stats and you
would type in dollar sign and then you
can select any one of your columns so
let's say internet users, you see it's even,
it's giving me a pop-up, so I can select
like that or just click enter and what
that will do if I run this now, it will
just return me this whole column of
internet users. So let's run that and you can
see that it's just a huge vector, it's
returned me a vector with all of this
information. So it's basically extracted that
vector and what I can do now is I can
find a value that vector let's say I
want to access the second row in the
data frame that would become the
second value in the vector and I would
just look at it like that right? So it's
5.9 if I look it back to my data set
you'll see second row 5.9 so that's the
internet users in Afghanistan.
Ok so basically we've extracted a whole
column from this data set and that is
very similar with that's exactly the
same thing as we used to do remember we
would say comma not nothing right so
that means we want all the rows and then
we would use the name of the column or
the number of the column in quotation
marks right? Same thing we get the same
result so basically this operation is
identical to this operation right? So
it's just a more convenient way, you can
see that putting a dollar sign and then
typing the name of the column is more
convenient than typing in all these
square brackets and so that is just one
of the ways you would use the dollar
sign so to extract a vector and access
the value this is not the most common
usage of the dollar sign and it's just
to kind of help you get your head around
what's going on here that basically
dollar sign specifies that the columns
that you want and you'll see throughout this
course that the dollar sign is very handy
when working with data frames and
we'll be using it a lot and you will see
it a lot in R. So we'll get used to it through
time but for now it's just good
that we have this understanding and I
just wanted to show you one more
application of the dollar sign before we
move on to the next tutorial, remember in
the previous tutorial we talked about
factors so if I run this line with them
or STR, so the structure of the data
frame you'll see that here we've got
factors right with levels but here from
here we couldn't tell what are the
factors. We know there's four of them and
we know that one of them is high-income
what are the other factors here?
Well there's a function that can help
you with that and the function is called
levels, pretty straightforward isn't it?
Because it says here with four levels so
you can just basically copy that word
from here and then there's your function
don't even need to remember it and
levels for the factors or you need to
supply the name of the column right? So
you would say stats and now you need to
somehow get to the column to feed it to
this function because you can't tell you
the levels for a whole data frame,
you have to say which column you're
interested in. How do they get to the column?
Well easy, we know the dollar sign now
and we'll just say dollar sign and income
group and now we'll run this line and
you can see now it prints out the
factors. It actually puts them into a
vector so you can then assign this to a
object if you want and create a new
vector with these four values but
basically we can see them on the screen,
high-income, low-income, lower-middle income
and upper-middle income.
There we go that's how you use the level
function and most important that's how
you use the dollar sign as you can see
here it's already very quick much more
quicker and then typing this up. Okay
this brings us to the end of today's
tutorial and I look forward to seeing
you next time,
until then happy coding.